package.json is the file having configuration of npm.

package.lock.json keeps the record of exact version of packages.it locks the dependancies to exact version.

most important package in our project is bundler.
webpack ,vit ,parcel are the examples of bundler.
create-react-app create webpack bunders.

npm install -d parcel  
this is the command to tell npm to install parcel as dev-dependancy.

dev-dependancies - these packages are required in development phase.

dependancies  = these packages required in production also.

caret(^) = this atomatically updates new patch version and minor version but not major version.
Purpose:
Allows updates to minor and patch versions within the specified major version, but not the next major version.
Example:
^1.2.3 would allow updates to versions like 1.2.4, 1.3.0, 1.3.1, but not 2.0.0


tilde() =it allows updates patch  version.
Primarily used for specifying patch-level updates while keeping the minor and major versions fixed.
Example:
~1.2.3 would allow updates to versions like 1.2.4, 1.2.5, but not 1.3.0 or 2.0.0.

.gitignore file =  ignores files inside it to upload on git

node module - it contains code of all the packages

what makes our react application faster?
not only just react but other things like bundlers which provides lots of functionalities like cashing , code splitting , tree shaking are alls helps react to make application faster.also react router package perform client side rendering also contribute to make react faster.


in this lecture we make our application production ready. - command is
 npx parcel build index.html

whichever folders we can regenerate we dont need to push them on git.

parcel provides - 
bundling
local server
HMR - hot module replacement(render for every small changes)
image optimization
file watching algorithm - written in c++
Cashing - faster builds
does compress files
code splitting
differential bundling - supports older browsers
better error handling
tree shaking - removes unused codes
HTTPS
different dev and production bundles.


browserList = we can add browser for which our app should compatible.(check browserList website)

what are transitive dependancies?
a transitive dependency refers to a package that is not directly listed in your project's package.json file as a dependency or devDependency, but is instead required by one of your direct dependencies.





what is state
state is used to store dynamic data.whenever the data inside state changes component gets rerenderd.


what is props
In React, props (short for properties) are read-only inputs passed from a parent component to a child component.
Key Points about Props--
1.Immutable
2.Passed from Parent to Child 
3.Read-only


What is Prop Drilling in React?
Prop Drilling happens when you pass props through multiple levels of components just to get the data from a top-level component (parent) to a deeply nested child, even if the intermediate components don’t need that data.

Why is Prop Drilling a Problem?
Unnecessary passing of props through components that don’t need them.
Hard to maintain when the app grows.
Clutters code and reduces readability



redux
It is state mnagement library.generally used foe bigger applications

It has 5 main parts


when we should use redux
it is benifitial to use redus only in larger application having big size
Global State Sharing
Complex State Logic


Redux is most useful when your application has  needs of complex state management.


what is custom hook? and why we use it?
custom hooks are just normal javscript functions. We should always start custom hook name with use word. with the help of custom hook we can make our code more cleaner , maintainable and reusable also.


lazy loading - it have different names like code splitting , differential bundling , dynamic bundling , on demand loading , dynamic loading.

why we use lazy loading?
lazy loading can make our app light weight , performant , optimized.
to reduce bundle size we do lazy loading , when we need to build large scale application then use of lazy loading is essential.



higher order components
A Higher-Order Component is a function that takes a component as an argument and returns a new component with additional functionality.
why we use it or when we shoud use it?
major used for enhancing Components.


what makes react application fast?
1 react is very fast in dom operation/it do effcient dom manipulation.
2.virtual Dom - it is representation of actual dom.it is nothig but normal javascript object
3.diffing algorithm - it finds out difference between newly updated Virtual DOM with the previous version of the Virtual DOM. 
4.reconsiliation algoritham(also known as react fiber)?
recounciliation algorithm efficiently updates ui using virtual dom and diffing algorithm by minimizing direct interaction with real dom this makes faster rendering.











1. Server-Side Rendering (SSR)
👉 Rendering happens on the server before the page is sent to the browser.
✅ Advantages:
Faster initial load (good for SEO, crawlers can see content).
provides Strong SEO support
❌ Disadvantages:
Each page request hits the server → more load on the backend.
Slower navigation between pages


2. Client-Side Rendering (CSR)
👉 Rendering happens on the browser (client) using JavaScript.
✅ Advantages:
Rich, interactive apps with smooth page transitions (no reload).
Less server load (server mainly sends JSON data).
❌ Disadvantages:
Slower first load (because JS must download + execute).
client side rendering provides weaker search engine optimization as compaire to server side rendering.

whe we use it?
Use CSR when interactivity and user experience matter more.
Use SSR when SEO and first-page performance matter more.
Use both when you need SEO and interactivity.




 